# BetterWe
An app designed to keep friends accountable for their goals. Developed by James Byrne, Sam Chami, Sam Savini, and John Scott.

## Proposal
The idea behind BetterWe is to make an phone app where you can achieve goals with your friends in fun ways while keeping each other accountable. It could be used for a group going on a diet, exercising regularly, or other custom activities. There are other apps that cover accountability already on the market. These apps often act as a personal trainer or are geared towards teams in a business. They tend to be geared towards individuals, and when they are intended for group use, they focus on groups in business. The apps are more serious than fun. BetterWe is looking to replace the group chats that you have with your friends about keeping up with each other about activities you are doing together. It will have features like location check in at places like the gym, a panic button in case you are tempted by a delicious looking cookie so that your friends can help you out, and a fun way to call out your friends for not doing what they should be. The technologies used for this app will be React Native for the app and Apache Cassandra for the database. New technologies will be added as we expand on our features. If we include location check in as a feature, we will use the Google Maps API.

There are two main reasons that we decided to use react native to write our app in. The first is that we are all already familiar with javascript which react native is based off of. The second reason is the platforms that react native can run on. It can run on iphones and Androids. It can also be more easily converted to a website than if we wrote it in Swift or Java. This app will have a database of messages, user profiles, and activity profiles, which will go well tie into our database project. We chose to use Apache Cassandra for our database because it seems like a good choice for group messenger type applications. This project has enough technical difficulty that it can span the course of one semester, and even two semesters if we want to make a website version or more features. At this app’s core, it is a glorified group messenger app. This means that we can focus on making the core of the app then expand outward with features as time allows. All of the group members can see potential uses for this app in their and their friends lives so it pertains to all of us, and hopefully to other users.



# App Description
Co-op is a messaging app created for groups who aim to complete certain tasks and goals together as a group. Our aim is to combine a task managing app with a fun and easy to use message-based social platform. The goals of a user can be as diverse as they would like to make them, from losing weight, to completing a group project. The app creates rooms for groups with certain goals, and enables message-based conversation between members. Any user can create their own tasks within their respective groups, and adjust the state of their task as time goes on. In this way, members can see the rate of progress for fellow users within the messaging group.

# Features

## Messaging Service
A simple and easily understood messaging service brings members together to keep others in check on their progress. With such a transparent app design, users can encourage each other on their tasks, and offer assistance when they observe a fellow user who may be falling behind on their goals. Conversely, group members can celebrate fellow group members who manage to keep up with their tasks. The messaging service is also perfect for organizing events with a group like a study session, or a trip to the gym.

## Task Creator
Within messaging groups, each individual user has the ability to create and adjust their own personal tasks. By selecting the 'create task' icon next to the messaging text box, a user is led to a page where they can personalize their own tasks. This includes providing a name for the task, and inputting a goal slider that can keep track of your progress. Once created, the task can be seen by each member of the respective group. All users of the app can see all tasks of every other user on their respective profile page.

# App Objectives
 The Objective of Co-op is to merge the world of a casual messaging app with the world of a task manager. We believe that through sharing one's tasks with other app users, he/she will be encouraged to continue his/her progress. The app is really meant to be what the user makes of it. For groups who seek serious weight loss or improved excercise, for example, conversation may revolve around selecting a time to meet to go on a bike ride. For groups who have tasks such as completing a project, the app may be used to share ideas on the project. For more casual users, tasks may not even be used, but the messaging service will drive the group conversation. By making such an open-ended application, our hope is that each user will make the app what they want it to be.

# App Materials

 For the front end of the App, our group used React Native, as well as React's libraries. There are two main reasons that we decided to use React Native to write our app in. The first is that we are all already familiar with javascript which react native is based off of. The second reason is the platforms that react native can run on. It can run on iPhones and Androids. It can also be more easily converted to a website than if we wrote it in Swift or Java. This app will have a database of messages, user profiles, and activity profiles, which will go well tie into our database project.

We chose to use Apache Cassandra for our database because it seems like a good choice for group messenger type applications. This project has enough technical difficulty that it can span the course of one semester, and even two semesters if we want to make a website version or more features. At this app’s core, it is a glorified group messenger app. This means that we can focus on making the core of the app then expand outward with features as time allows. All of the group members can see potential uses for this app in their and their friends lives so it pertains to all of us, and hopefully to other users.
